# Too Done

Build a basic terminal todo app.

I've provided the application skeleton in [too_done][too_done].
You'll want to fork and clone it and push all work to your fork.

[too_done]: https://github.com/TIY-ATL-ROR-2016-Feb/toodone

## Objectives

### Learning Objectives

After completing this assignment, you should ...

* Understand basic database modeling and associations
* Understand how to create, delete, and query models
* Understand how to write migrations to update the schema
* Understand how to use models in a larger application

### Performance Objectives

* Use `belongs_to` and `has_many` associations competently
* Use ActiveRecord to manage the database schema and models

## Setup

### Installing

After you fork and clone, don't forget to run `bundle` and `rake db:migrate` from your clone!

The database will be stored in `db/too_done.db`. I have also taken the liberty of adding a
migrations that give you "sessions" and "users" tables to track the "current user". Each entry
has a user_id and a timestamp of a login. The current user is considered to be the most recent
entry in this table.

### Running

You can run the app with `bundle exec ruby lib/too_done.rb SUBCOMMAND ARGS` but since
that is **so verbose**, you'll want to add a shell alias to make your life easier.

Shell aliases are just shorthand for longer commands. Writing

    alias tasks="bundle exec ruby lib/too_done.rb"

would allow you to run the app from the `tasks SUBCOMMAND ARGS`
instead of `bundle exec ruby lib/too_done.rb SUBCOMMANAD ARGS`
which is much more convenient.

Note that shell aliases go away when the terminal is closed unless you add them to
the bottom of your shell dotfiles (i.e. `~/.zshrc`) for future terminal sessions.

### Important Notes

**NOTE:** `gets` does not behave the way that you're used to. Note that the [first sentence of the docs][gets] mentions that gets pulls from files passed as arguments and only from standard input if *no files* are passed as arguments. As a result, you'll likely want to use `STDIN.gets.chomp` to get Ruby reading from "the right place".

**NOTE:** You'll want to make sure to run the app from the toplevel "toodone" directory.

**NOTE:** SQL logging is not on by default. To see the SQL queries generated by your code during migrations or runs of the app, just prefix the rest of your command with `LOGGING=true` as in `LOGGING=true rake db:migrate` or `LOGGING=true tasks SUBCOMMAND ARGS`, etc.

## Normal Mode

1. You'll need to add migrations/models with appropriate associations for:

   * Users
   * Todo Lists
   * Tasks

   Users and Todo Lists only hard requirement is some sort of name column.

   Tasks on the other hand need at least name, optional due date, and completed columns.

   Remember you have the [ActiveRecord Migrations Guide][migrations] to help you!

2. Once the migrations and models are in place (and required/loaded in `lib/too_done.rb`),
   you should define any needed associations like `has_many`, `belongs_to`, etc.

   Remember to think about whether the relationships 1-to-1, 1-to-many, many-to-many.
   (Hint: There is **no need** for many-to-many relationships in Normal mode.)

   Remember you have access to the [ActiveRecord Associations guide][associations] to help you!

3. There are 6 subcommands in TooDone, each is a method with comments in `lib/too_done.rb`.
   The comments describe what the finished method should do, using the models.

   **NOTE:** Your logic should be almost entirely in `lib/too_done.rb` in these methods,
   not in your models! Simply use the built in ActiveRecord methods we've been learning
   this week to interact with the database as needed.

   Remember you have access to the [ActiveRecord Querying guide][querying] to help you!

[associations]: http://guides.rubyonrails.org/association_basics.html
[migrations]: http://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_record_migrations.html
[querying]: http://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_record_querying.html
[thor]: http://whatisthor.com/

## Nightmare Mode

It's possible to envision a scenario where a Todo does not fit neatly into
a single list/category such as "Personal", "Health", "Finances", "Work", etc.

Go crazy and add a TodoTag model and Tag model. Make a many-to-many
and ways to view todos by what they're tagged with. Update the subcommands.

## Additional Resources

Run `tasks help` at the command line to view the subcommands and then run
`tasks help SUBCOMMAND` with each one in turn to see more detailed descriptions of
their options and behavior.

Implement each subcommand, first relying on the default options and basic behavior. Then
supporting early exit in case of invalid input, and support for the options, and so on.

We are using the lovely [Thor][thor] library to help make our app and handle command line
arguments. Feel free to refer to its documentation but the only thing you should need to
know is that the optional command line flags can be accessed from an `options` hash
in any of the methods in the App class, just like the way we used `params` with Sinatra!
i.e. `options[:list]` for an optional list argument.
